good day and welcome to the apple cue four fiscal year twenty twenty one earning's conference call to day's call is being recorded at this time for opening remarks and introductions i would like to turn the call over to tagos gala director of invested relations in corporate finance. we go ahead thank you good afternoon and thank you for joining us speaking to day first is applese e o tim cook and he'll be followed by c f o luca mayistri after that we'll open the call to questions from analysts please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion to day. consist of forward looking statements including without limitation those regarding revenue gross margin operating expenses other income and expense taxes capitaalocation and future business outlook including the potential impact of covid nineteen on the company's business and results of operations. be statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results or trends to differ materially from our forecast for more information please refer to the risk factors discussed in apple's most recently filed annual report on form ten k and the form eight k filed with the s  c to day along with the associated press rele. apple assumes no obligation to update any forward looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates i'd like to now turn the call over to tim thanks tageous and good afternoon every one and thank you for joining the call to day a year ago i spoke to you about the atmosphere of uncertainty in which we were living and the way it had. come to define our daily experience both as people and as a company to day much has changed profoundly so and while we are still living through unprecedented times we are encouraged by progress around the world i am grateful to our teams who have stayed resolutely focussed on our customers and the pe. uit of innovation on their behalf we've aimed to help our customers navigate the world as it is while empowering them to create the world as it can be whether it's public health workers managing vaccination campaigns on iphon or students returning to class rooms full of ipaths or family staying connected. face time it is an honor to know that what we make matters and to see that reflected in the world and in our performance this fiscal year we reported three hundred and sixty six billion dollars in revenue which represents thirty three per cent annual growth we also achieved more than twenty per. ntgrowth across all our product categories and in every geographic segmat and today apple is reporting another very strong quarter demand was very robust and we set a new september quarter record of eighty three point four billion dollars up twenty nine per cent from last year and inli. with what we discussed on our last call despite larger than expected supply constraints we estimate these constraints had around a six billion dollar revenue dollar impact driven primarily by industry wide silican shortages and coved related manufacturing disruptions even so. we set an all time record for mak and quarterly records for iphone ipad waraples home and accessories representing thirty per cent yeary year growth in products our services business performed better than we expected where we hit an all time record of eighteen point three billion dollars and grew twenty six per cent year over ye. r and we set quarterly records in every geographic segment with strong double digut growth across the board during fiscal twenty twenty one we earned nearly one third of our revenue from emerging markets and doubled our business in india and via nam we are optimistic about the fut. ure especially as we see strong demand for au new products at the end of the september quarter we introduce our ithone thirteen line up as well as the apple wat series seven ipad and ipad many all of which represent significant advances the ichone thirteen and iphone thirteen many alongs. the iphone thirteen pro and pro max are setting a new standard with their superfas performance advanced camera systems longer battery life and brilliant super retna displays customers are loving the ninth generation i pad which features of beautifully sharp display and twice the stor. of the previous generation as well as the new iped many with its ultra portable design and impressive speed and performance and we've been thrilled with the reviews that applewatch ceries seven has earned for its larger display faster charging and refined design and just last week we in. roduce the completely reimagined makbuk pro powered by the extraordinary im on pro and m on max chips these are our most powerful note books ever with game changing performance and battery life and the world's best note book display we think customers are going to love macluk pro whether. editing vidio and final ca pro or making music and logic pro and so much more they'll be able to do things never before possible on a note book we also announced our all new air pods that feature spacial audio and industry leading sound longer battery life and an all new design. for the home we added three new colors to our home pied minni line out which offers seamless inmigration across apples products and services we also announced a new subscription tier to apple music called apple music boice which offers subscribers access to the service's catalogue of ninety million songs all throug. thpower of cyre across the board teams at apple continue to drive unmatched innovation through the seamlessly integrated hardware software experience we've long prided ourselves on ios fifteen and ipados fifteen have created more ways than ever to saye productive whether. using focus to avoid distractions or quicknote to capture a thought macos montorey offers new ways to connect with friends and family get more dine and work fluidly across apple devices and wachos a has made apple watch even more powerful and more ways than ever to say active and. tract your health on the go we've never had a more diverse range of services for our customers to choose from and we've been very encouraged by a performance which reflects growing customar enthusiasm and satisfaction in just its first two years apple tve plus has already proved itself to fans e. round the world and i want to congratulate the incredible actors writers story tellers producers and everyone else who's behind the scene's work has made that success possible this quarter apple tebe plus won eleven imis including the award fro outstanding comedy series for. lassa that show has continued to bring light and laughter to fans all over the world with its boundless optimism and beloved cast of characters we couldn't be more proud of our entire line up of content from the gripping second seasons of the morning show and truth be told to our newest programmes swag. ger which is out to morrow the response has been incredible this quarter also saw major updates to fitness plots including the addition of new activities like meditation and polotti's and the announcement of group workouts a feature that brings fitness and friends together we also shared that fit. s plus will soon be available in fifteen new countries bringing workouts for every age and skill level to millions more people around the world and those are just two of the services our customers are loving this quarter apple card won a jad power award for customer's satisfaction in its very first year of eligibility. the ab store continues to help people find the apts they depend on to say productive creative and entertained and on apple news we launched a news partner programme that expands apple support for journalism while creating an even better business opportunity for publishers. and we continue to sport our customers around the world we're glad to report we've opened several new apple stores this quarter we opened a beautiful store in changcha which is our first store in the hunan province of china we also just opened our third store in istembol and we recently added a. ore in the bronx which means we are now in all five boroughs in new york city all oour stores are now open whorld wide and have been for seven weeks as we enter our busiest time of h year i particularly want to share my gratitude for our retail teams customers have never relied on our products more and our retail teams. truly answered the call we meet our customers where they are with many ways to shop through our online and retail stores and can help them choose the best product for them and get it up in running we are also excited about our education initiatives this month we introduce the everyone can code early learners programme. offering free resources which help students in elementary school learn coding we see education not only as a fundamental good in its own right but as a great equalizing force a world where all people can access e quality education isn't just a smarter world it's a more equitable one. that desire to create a more just and equitable world is the guiding principle behind our racial equity and justice initiative this quarter apple shared plans to expand our hundred million dollar investment by an additional thirty million dollars those funds will be used in a number of ways including the crea. tion of a new global hysphanic serving institution equity an innovation hob the hub will dramatically expand the technology and resources for students and the stem fields those programmes join our ever expanding work with historically black colleges and universities including the now forty five. community coating centers and reginal hobs serving under represented communities across the united states this month we were also happy to welcome the inaugral class of developers and altromanoeers to the apple developer academy in detroit the academy is apple's first in the united states and is de. ine to help prepare students for jobs in the thriving i o s ap economy which supports more than two point one million jobs across all fifty states in august we shared our impact accelebrator's first coort of black latinax and indigenous own businesses whose pioneering work in green technology. clean energy serves many of the communities most impacted by climate change more broadly we are already carbon neutral as a company and this quarter we made new strides toward reaching our goal of carbon neutrality across our entire supply chain and the life cycle of our devices by twenty th. ity we've made significant product advances in this area i pad and i pad many now come with a hundred per cent becycled aluminum inclosure the antenna on ithone thirteen is made up of upcycled plastic water bottles which marks an industry first and as our c. tomers are seen when they purchase iphone thirteen we re design the packaging to eliminate the outer plastic rap which will allow us to avoid using six hundred metric tons of plastic this brings us closer to removing all plastic and our packaging by twenty twenty five we've also made. good progress toward our goal to one day make our products without taking anything from the earth with appelwat series seven for example ninety nine per cent of the rare earth elements we use are recycled ahead of cot twenty six i am also pleased to report that we have more than doubled the number of our suppliers. who had committed to becoming carbon neutral by twenty thirty we're very encouraged to see the growth in this area and we will continue to drive those changes in the supply chain in the months and years to come we'e never viewed our environmental work as a side project teams afcross apple are pushing this work forward in the same spirit. innovation we bring to our products and services we are determined to be a ripple in the pond that drives a far greater change from the pandemic to climate change to inequity and injustice global challenges won't abide solitary solutions and we feel a deep sense of responsibility to. help we are incredibly proud of the product line up we have going into the holiday season and we are encouraged by the customer response we've seen and while we cannot know exactly which path the pandemic will take the world down in the months to come we feel quite confident that this new year will be driven b. the values that guide us and by the innovation that defines us with that i'll hand it over to luca for a deeper dive on our performance this quarter luca thank you tim good afternoon everyone we are pleased to report very strong financial reserts for the september quarter capping a reckes setting fisca. two thousand twenty one we set a september quarter revenue record of eighty three point four billion an increase of nearly nineteen billion or twenty nine per cent from a year ago despite larger than expected supply constrains we also reached new cue four records in every geographic segment with strong double. gid growth in each one of them and it was a reckles september quarter for both products and services on the product's side revenue was sixty five point one billion up thirty per cent of a year ago as we experienced better than expected demand for our products despite. ply constraints that we estimated at a round six billion dollars we grew in each of our proter categories with an old time record for mak and september quarter records for iphon for ipad and for werables home and accessories this level of sale performance com. ned with the unmatched loyalty of our customers and the strength of our eco system drove our installed base of active devices to a new old time record our services set an ald time revenue record of eighteen point three billion up twenty six per cent over a year ago with september. quarter records in every geographic segment and in every services category company gros margin was forty two point two per cent down one hundred ten basis points from last quarter due to higher costs and a different mix of products partially offset by leverage product's gross margin. was thirty four point three per cent down one hundred seventy basis points sequentially as higher cost sfructures were partially offset by leverage and mix service's gross margin was seventy point five per cent up seventy basis points sequentially mainly due to a different mix net income. of twenty point six billion and diluded earnings per share of a dollar and twenty four cents both grew over sixty per cent year over year and were september quarter records let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories ifon revenue grow forty seven per. cent year over year and set a september quarter record of thirty eight point nine billion despite supply constraints as customary demand was very strong the iphon twelv family continued to perform very well and were seeing enthusiastic customar response to the launch of our iphon thirteen family. we also grew double digits in each geographic segment setting september quarter records in both developed and emerging markets the latest survey of u s consumers from four five one research indicates iphon custumer satisfaction of ninety eight per cent for iphon and our in. active installed base of iphones reached anew altime high for mak we shad an old time revenue record of nine point two billion despite supply constraints driven by strong demand for our m on powered mat book air in fact our last five quarters for mak a. been the best five quarters ever for the category ipat performance was also stron with a september quarter revenue record of eight point three billion up twenty one per cent in spite of significant supply constraints a scaucitome demand for for the ipa pro also powered by m. was very strong for both mak and ipad we continued to see a combination of high levels of customer satisfaction and first time buyers around half of the customers purchasing mak and ipa during the quarter were new to that product and in the most recent surveys of us consu. mers from four five one research customer's satisfaction was ninety seven per cent for both mak and ipad our continued investment in in ipade mac is taken computing to the next level we have redesigned and reengineered both products to provide customers and unmatched exp. erience which resulted in recored fiscal years for both categories we are carrying this momentum also in the enterprise market for example esap has already deployed max to tens of thousands of their employees to date following the launch of our new m one macuu prolas. ek essa p is planning to add it to the growing list of m on mak offerings available to their global work force another example is trances national railway company s an c f which equips all train drivers with ipads to manage their entire daily work. and train operations helping to lower energy and maintenance costs in fact the ipas have been so well received that ninety per cent of the drivers choose to purchase them for personal use at the end of the corporate device refresh cycle next werables. m and accessories set a new september quorta record of eight point eight billion we continue to improve and expand our product offerings in this category which we believe improved over all cusumer experience and show case the integration between our products and services apol watch air pods and hom pod mini are power. devices in their own right cotpared with our other products softer and services they create unique experiences like switching audios seamlessly between devices on your airports turning to services as i mentioned we reach an old time revenue record of eighteen point three billion with ald time records. for cloud services music vidio advertising uppul care and payment services and a september quarter record for the af store our continued imvestment and strong execution in services has helped us deliver a record sixty eight billion dollars in revenue during fiscal two thousan. twenty one nearly tripling this category in six years these impressive results reflect the positive momentum we are seeing on many france first our installed base continues to grow and reach an oldtime high across each geographic segment next we continue to see increased customary eng. gment with our services the number of paid accounts on our digit or contents stores through double digits and reache a new altime high during the september quarter in each geographic segment also paid subscriptions continue to show very strong growth we now have more than seven hundred and forty five million. paid subscriptions across the services on our platform which is up more than one hundred and sixty million from last year and nearly five times the number of paid subscriptions we had less than five years ago and finally as theam mentioned earlier we r a the new services that we think our customers we love and we. ontinue to improve the breadth and quality of our current services offerings fisca twenty one twenty one was not only a big year for services but for our entire company during the past twelve months we grew our business by thirty three per cent or ninety one billion dollars reaching nearly three hundred and sixty. ix billion dollars of revenue with record level performance across the board every product category and every geographic segment set a new annual revenue record and was up at least twenty per cent of offical twenty twenty let me now turn to our cash position. we ended a quarter with one hundred ninety one billion in cash plus marketable securities we issued six point five billion of newter debt retired one point three billion of term debt and decreased commercial paper by two billion leaving us wi total debt of one hundred twenty five billion as a result neck cash was sixty six. billion at the end of the quarter as we continued to make progress towards our goal of net cash neutral ove time as our business continued to generate very strong cashflo we were also able to return twenty four billion to shareholders during the september quarter this included three point six billion in dividends and equi. balance and twenty billion though open market repurchasers of one hundred and thirty seven million apple shares we also retired an additional five million shares in the final settlement of our seventeenth a s r asto emove ahead into the december quarter. alike to review our outlook which includes the types of forward looking infinformation the pages referred to at the beginning of the call given the continued anserc certainty around the world in the near term we are not providing revenue guidance but we are shared in some directional in. besides based on the assumption that the covet related impacts to our business do not aworson from what we are projecting to day for the current quarter as we mentioned earlier as we. mentioned earlier during the september quarter supply constraints impacted our revenue but i around six billion dollars we estimate the imporct from supply constraints will be larger during the december quarter despite this challenge we are seeing high demands for our products. and expect what she very solid year over year revenue growth and to set a new revenue record during the september the december quarter we expect revenue for each prodor category to grow on a year ovar year basis except for ipad which we expect to decline year over year due su. to supply constraints for services we expect ou. wiht from the september quarter but to remain strong we expect gross margin to be between forty one point five and forty two point five per cent we expect opex to be between twelve point four and twelve point six billion. dollars we expect oieni to be a round negative fifty million dollars excluding any potential impact from the mark to market of minority investments and our tax rate to be around sixteen per cent finally to day our board of directors has declared a cash dividend of twenty two cents per share of common stock. payable on november eleventh two thousand  twenty one to sheroldes ov recod ous of november eighth two thousand atwenty one with that lhat's open the call two questions thank yeu luka we ask that you limit yourself to two questions operator may we have the first question please. thank you our first question comes from channing cross from cross research ah thank you very much ah dam i'm wondering can you talk a bit more about specific supply chang issues you saw and how you've seen improvements i the related manufacturing disruptions in south east asia the second of those. hecovet disruptions have improved a materially across october to where we currently are and so for this quarter we think that the primary a cause of supply chain a related shortages will will be the chip shortage. ah it'll affect ah i it is affecting i should say pretty much most of our products currently ah and but but from a demand point of view a demand is very robust and so what part of this is tha demand also is very strong. but we believe that by the time we finish the quarter that the constraints will be larger than the  six billion that we experienced in k four don't get a great so you'll sort of push forward in the next quarter as well i'm cini ajust  a different question cause i'm curious you you're starting to sew. and more things on a radical basis ah and and how are you thinking about that i minu you have youknow the new maxin that week we keep seeing ou no ye can buy for a monthly the charge and that how do you think that's that's driving sales and how should we think about you know per cent maybe of of the portfolio that's now available and  i don't nos you want o. us how much revenue is now under under a recurring nature but am it it definitely seems as you're shifting more and more to maybe sort of a abundled sale or or an offering from a from a consumer's standpoint while you just pay one price every every month in you get you know all o your apple devices ind apple ser. thinkiu now the first product shannon that really sold on a monthly basis was i phon and that began to happen a in thein the u s as an example i shortly after the the subsidy kind of whorl changed a markedly and so i. would say that predominantly a th the mode of buying an iphone in the united states is on a monthly a kind of plan to day a for the balance of the products still the ah most popular would be buying them outright but we are seeing. a more and more demand for monthly payments and so in n a so we want to give the customer what they want and so you'll you will see us do more and more things like that that wi'll a meet the customer with and provide the price that they want in a way that they want to pay. rit i don't know the percentage a  of products that are sold that way to day but it is increasing ain't thankyiu yel thanks shannon can we have the next question please we will hear next from armet dariani with evrecourt. humph perfect i'm thakes lot an god offtrnoon every one i'm a to as well off yoiguess when i think about this supply chein hedvins an touk about six billion n september getting bigger in december i'll you  jim i o od look that this unhidy a come for that this is really demanded getting goforrd wor wors 's prot. ly getting distrorted way somewhere else ah and if you think abou ty supplis in bottle negs a youknow yyou wear the sea o you manage a lot of the stuff did' you feel confortable this lot of peaks in december and beleviits from there or want that trajectory look like for improvement ye wy what i se consortable on is i i feel like we've made great. rogress on the covet related a disruptions and that a happened to cross the month of october and we're in a materially better position to day a it is difficult to predict covet and so i'm not going to predict awhere it goes but i can just tell you that as as of to day we're in a materially better position than we. ar ah in september and in the the first several weeks of october and turn to the chip shortage the chip shortage is happening on legacy nodes primarily ah we buy leading edge nodes and we're not having issues on leading edge nodes but on legacy nodes. ecompete with a many different companies for supply and it's difficult to forecast a when those things will balance because you'd have to know how kind of how the economies can to bein in twenty two andand the accuracy of every one else's demand projections and so i don'. feel comfortable in a in making a prediction i think it would be ah you know would be subject to too much inaccuracy ah but i do feel very comfortable with our operational team i think we've got a wirl class one and a i'm sure there. they're doing everything they can do to a collapse cychal times and improve yialds and do all the things that you can do in in addition to fundamental a capacity investment to remedy the situation got it enin a muka fanathi. or and gros margin up for december ehe ye sence yo die in grorse margins be flats maybe down a little bit wor slosid september ah o nee just tuch about  soking historically i would hve expected grost margins to be off in december given how much revenue leverd yo end up with ah so mabe one of the puts an takes on gros margin that are resulting in a more flattish guide worsas. orcultfi nowbe well a as you knowd that typically inoviously with the december being the holiday season we do get leverage as you say by it's also the period of the year wher we launch a lot of new products an and er ah as you know we launch essentially in every product category we launch new products. demand is very strong but as you know when when we launch these new products we tend to have hier kog structures at the beginning of the cycle and so that's what balances this out ah obviously from a year of a years standpoint it's actually a significant expansion right because when you look. a what we did a a year ago in tein the december quarter thirty nine point eight per cent this clearly indicates a significant expansion thanks amit can we have the next question please. where you'r next from katy heberty with morgan stanley thank you given the supply caint is blurring the demand picture for iphon thirteen what data points can you share that help investors understand whether demand is tracking to a product cycle that is flat growing or rdown from the very stro. iphone twelve and maybe on that front lucca you can also comment on where you exited a quarter from a channel imentory standpoint for iphone relative to a normal product cycle then iave o follow up yelmaybe i can take bote of those the channel imitory as you would expect in a constrained environment a the i. phone prelimtory ended below the targeted range ah and and dis currently below it and so that that's that in terms of the blurring of demand we look at katy we look at a number of different ah data points we look at demand across our online store. demand in retail a the we look through to back orders on the carrier channels a the ones that do take back orders there ah we we a look at channel orders as well and so we have a number of different a data points that we use to. conclude ah how strong demand is and we feel very very good about where demand is right now ah we're and we're working feverishly on the supply side of e and tim is a follow up we've recently surveyed four thousand consumers in the u s. nchina and the feed back is most of them don't want to pay for aps or services direct what the developer they value the security privacy ease of transactions with theapstore so how do you think about balancing the regulator's push for more choice with a customer base that's happy with he. existing experience and and just as  as a followon to that  how are how are you and luca thinking about the potential impact of services revenue growth rate as some of the changes to the aptor go indu effect it's amaing that we're focussed on on the ap store is to. a keep our focus on privacy and security and so these are the two major tenets that have produced over the years a very trusted environment where consumers and developers a come together and consumers can trust the developers on the developers and. aps ore or what they say they are and the developers get a huge a a a audience to tosell their a software two and so that's that sort of number one on our list everything else is is a a distant second ah and so wwha. redoing is working to explain the decisions that we've made that our key to a keeping the privacy in security ah there which which is to to not have sideloading and not have alternate ways aon the iphone where it opens up the ipho. one to a unreviewed aps an and also a gets by the privacy restrictions that we' put on the ap store and so so we're very very focused and discussing the privacy an security a elements of the ap store with the regulators and legislators. thanks katy to me ot the next question please w'll take your next question from david voit with a u b s great thinkyou guys a and ai have two quick questions one big picture theoretical so you know you cover the supply jane in pretty extensive. tail an mccall but maybe just a bigger picture on how you're thinking about it philosophically givin what you just sort of went through over the last twelve to eight months o what i mean by that is there's sort of a recalebration needed or an adjustment around your supply taain philosophy either from a partner perspective or maybe a reasonable perspective and not any think about the in structure and insabilit. sort of reboundind sort of handle sort of e desruptions that seem to crop off from time to time and then eval follow up yet i don't i don't see a a fundamental error of it that we've made if thif that's what you're  picking ot in terms of of creating the environment that we're in. ah it was created for a number of reasons the the pandimic came along some ah some people in the industry and some people outside the industry thought that the pandimic would reduce demand they pulled their orders down ah things reset and what really happened was. demand went op and went up even more than the than a a a straight trend would would predict and so the the industry is working through that now i'm making it a little overly simplicity there's some other things like yeelds and things like that ah. tharthat are happening as well but those things ir are mainly manageable in the course of time and so what what we're doing is working with our partners on making sure that they have supply that we need in making sure that our demand statements sir are accurate as we see them and and so. and at the same time we're reducing our lee times and encycle times so that when you get a chip off a fab as quickly as possible it's in a product and shifting ah you know and also helping the fab partners increase their yialds and so do. ose things er r things tatwe're doing a we also support the chips act ah and the investment there to i put more investment in the in the in the ground and a and so were we're spending some time a. itating for the chipsact as well great then that's hufo and i didn't i didn't mean to implicate that you got so mstuff just maybe came off that way and maybe just sands a quick follow up you know what you think about you know purchasing devices rapibly you touched on that earlier but maybe can you just touch on you know the partnerships that you have with carriers and supports that they have. in you over the last couple of years now thi's been a key component of your success one of the tyte relationships that you have globily am youknow do you think sort of this business model as it's currently sort of youknow youlput together globily as sort of a a permanent structure meaning you know carriargs are gong to be an integal part of driving a demand for. phones or inores our stence at may be bit more transitory depending on the part of the cycle tat wormen i think that five g has provided a ah once in a decade kind of of upgrade potential and enits a multi er kind of a thing it's not a. one year and dan and i think the a we're motivated a there the carriers motivated there with mutual interest ah and the customer benefits hugely from getting aa new fag phone that has fig and a number of other. features in it too a an and so i think ti think everybody's alined on purpose the the model that you paint is i is i wouldn't call it a global model because they're different ah variations around the world depending upon the country. but but in general i think that the a marriage if you will or partnership between apple and the carrier channel's never been stronger ah and that it's on very solid a footing thank you can we. the next person a cern thank youry much absole wi'll take our excression from chrish santcar with kowan and company yei thanks putting my question i had two of them to and tim i will give you a repre fom the supplycan questions i a two ant services the first one is on. new a t t the abtracting transfancy feature and all the headlines hit has gone at recently i'm i'm very curious to feed back your scene or receive from your advertisers and usurfs and how it s also impacted surchas your own ad business he disto kno the feet back an ten a o follow u the. beck from customers is overwhelmingly positive a customers appreciate having the a option of whether they want to be tracked or not and so the the there's an outpouring of of the customer's satisfaction there on the customer's side. tthe reason that we did this is that as you know if you've  youe followed us for a while wee we believe strongly that privacy is a basic human right and ohand we've believed that for decades not just in the just in the last year or so and we've we've historically rolled out amore. more features over time a for to place the decision of whether to share data and what data to share in the hands of the user where we believe that it belongs ah we don't think that's apple's roll to decide and we don't think that's another company's role to decide but rather thar the. ividual who owns the the date itself and so that's our motivation there there's no other motivation got it got it im an that's a very fair carelanation thank you for that and then as a quick follow up i'm jis conaculiating on the moble geiling in yor apstool you now there been some recent action by fo. tan golments to limit gn time canta cue how they affect your abstrute business ind those geographies and is thet a way you can qualify that or is it to emit eoters point thank you you mean limititing the time on games is that what you're getting at ya exactly like yi i know is decided  livit gan. ting like that it's a very difficult to measure ah the yet what it the policy f you're talking about for those people they don't know is there's a a policy ah to restrict ah kids below a certain age ah to i think it's one. hour on friday saturday sunday a each and ah it's very difficult to see the impact of it on the af tor at this point thank you yep thanks can we have the next question please. think you will take our next question from samic charigy with j p morgan i thank for taking my question a i gess e tem i wanted  are forsed to start off on your a comment about strong demand across prodocts and tis rate of tlife own thirteen if you can give us a bit more insight about what do yo. seeing in terms of intent intoms of either ogrades from the installedways or even switchors grate of to if you can compare a t iphone twelve because some of the or feet back we are getting is for example like strong switching activity in china soe just wondering if you can get a bit more glanular there intoms of the what's driving the demand and whois it coming from. ever foloit's so early to talk about iphon thirteen because it's only been on the market for for less than thirty days now ah what i can tell you is going into the cycle a if you look at our results from last quarter we grew on upgraters and switchers in the double digits. and so both were very meaningful for the for the iphone results last quarter and so there's a there's significant momentum in iphon and and i would clearly characterize the demand that we're seeing currently as robast as you can tell. from the some of the quoats that we're a quoting on the online store  cam and u as a follow up i i gess back to the supply chain but i want you to just ask more relative to cost implications there unte how what we'r hearing is not only deris. alto component caus going up so a as we looked through asant think about this upcoming psychal holl are you looking to manage component cous rated head winds and is that something you're seeing u to coming through the supply chan thank you wi we' put our current thoughts in the gross margian guidance tatwe gave you the firt forty. one five to forty two five ah i would tell you that we are seeing a significant increase in freight costs and and i i would assume that that is pretty consistent across a different companies and so were clearly seeing some inflation there. thank you yell thanks to me ov the next question please think you will take our next question from jim souva with city group thank you and i'll ask both my questions at the same time probably the first ones for tim on the services revenue much better than. pected you know can ye give us some details about what drove that was at apple stores more open so more apple care or morer apple one or arcade or tevy or fitness and then probably for lucan supply chain when you mention you know supply tain head on's going to get worse im and you mention six billion this quarter there's. two ways to think about your terminology of wors is it the delta from two billion that you identified three months ago that went to six billion so therefore the delta four billion gets worse or reyou just saying ah and therefore it's above ten billion for december quarter oreyou just saying it just gets higher than the six billion tht that you just identified. i'm brily in a call thankou too much to you in your team jim i'm going to take the second question that you ask and luca could take the first one on services sjust in the reverse of f thethe way you coined it a on the on the supplies constraints we were saying is that a the number the amount of tthe nom. amount of supply constraints for cu on we estimate to be larger than six billion and so nigun it's important to know that we're we're getting a lot more supply in k on than we had in ku four obviously because our equippent. quencial growth is significant and we have very solid growth year every year and so the the amount of suppl is growing dramatically it's just that the demand is so robust that ah we we invision having supply constraints for the quarter. catin o man and and jemon's services the twenty six per cent egrowth rata we had was better than what we were expecting at the beginning of the quarter and it was really across the borders difficult to single out a specific area because we sat all time records on cloud. it we said you know all time records across the board e apolcere music vidio advertising payment services the abstore was a september quarter reguser was thrung across the board you know when we look at the services business we always think about some fundamental factors that allow us to to have. good visibility over the sustainability of the business rit the fact that the installed base continues to grow ah that's that's obviously positive the fact that the number of people that are actually paying on the er on the platform continues to grow double digits and. that obviously increases our opportunity are the number of subscriptions that we have ah on the platform we mentioned during the call seven hundred ndforty five million paid sabs right now it's an increase of one hundred and sixty million persus just er twelve months ago. right and obviously the fact that we continue to launch new services and new offerings within the services that we already have new features a that you know obviously gives us a lot of momentum a going forward we're very fortunate we have a very. now it's a very large business sixty eight billion dollars in the last twelve months and very diversified we ah yen we sell a lot of different services and our customers seem to to really enjoy the experience that they have on the platform thank you so much for the details. thanks to meo the next question please thank you wi'll take our next question from chris caso with raymond james yes thank you om for my first question a it's a question about your ability to a recapture us salls that you weren't able to fill and choose for. one in in cue too m and you have some some experience in that from last year when the iphone a naut althe models wante the same time and some were late and you did recapture some of that as you went past the holidays do you think that we should expect similar behaviour this year. and then with that also is wwill all prodac categories behave similarly meaning that thereare the same some product categories where if you miss the holidays you you just miss for sale i think there are a some products that people buy as gifts that if it's not there that it's perishable. ah but i think that a we have a lot of products as well that people will wait for and we would expect those to to a be captured an in a different time period so it's it's a combination a fo. this certain quarter of the holiday quartero at the layes inka um as a follow up could you speak to iphone mix an um a one of things we noted is that the delivery timeen for all iphones are a bit long because of the. strength they'r a bit longer on the pro and the max a itis that a function of of supply or or demand or perhaps both m and again ii would imagine you have a little better handle on that this year given that all the phones wer belongin to the same time yes it's really too early to make con. ns on mix at this point because it has been we have been in a constrained environment so tha the mix becomes more obvious once supplying the manner are balanced don'tet thank yo thanks can we have the next question please. hink you will take our next question from harsh kumar with piper sanlor ya he or guys first of all gret job managing to thee supply constrains its a it's obviously affecting everybody so congratulations and then ten month for you a strategic question when apple thinks about strategic arias that that as a. pany of my own for example sofper's high priority but you're also one of the largest semi conductor companies if ithe company was staying alone so curious about the kind of imput that im tinking that goes into owning some piece of technology for example when we survey people they say batteries and screens ar very important so. as an apple for example what pat s t apple from looking at areas like that wwe look at once where we believe we can make a substantial difference and a have a level of differentiation and so you know awe've put a lot of energy into silican space because we. felt that we could a design and develop products that we could not if we were in the just buying what's available in the commercial market and as you can see more recently we made that call ah on the mak as well and have shifted to our to our own ships. are and so it really depends on whether we see a way to do something that's differentiated or not and a and i wouldn't want a rule i wouldn't want to rule anything out it's more of whether whether or not we see our way clear to to doing s. thing that is materially battere we feel like we've done tat very well anesh we fel lect we've done that in the chip area ah thank thank you for thal tim and i knap bout one for lucam i want o go back to a question that i mit asked earlier in the call about the brush margian so when i look at the. umber quarter our services obviously grew much faster than the product business margin was down and same thing for december but i think you're your you'r effectively saying that there's a lot of new product launches would that not go into opexs for example marketing et cetera as opposed to cogs or is there something that tavemineith de. rified here e that is certainly obviously that we have lauge expenses between marketing and advertising of course when we launch new products but the reality is what happens we always make our products better and which means adding new techknowledgye and new features to the product so typically when. oumove from one generation of products to the next one the cost fructures tend to be higher particuly at the beginning of the cycle and so when you make that transition there is always some level of margin compression from athe transition to a new product ah the other the other aspec. you ned to think about is the fact that the december quarter is the holiday season and so the percentage of products business that we have in the holiday quarter is higher than what we have in the september quarter for example and and therefore as you know because. services margins are higher than the product's margin there's also a mix between the products and services business that plays into the the gross margins for the company rightand that's what you see as you move sequentially from september to december very well thank you so much. thank you can we ave the next question please think you will hear next from wamsey mohan with pink of america ah yes thank you e i had a question about a broadly about prizing off new products a de seyer apple launch the ifon. irteen at a slightly lower price then than where the twelve was launched last year in china i can you maybe help us think through what word some of the things that you look at in deciding that and and is that an action that you could a take more broadly in other regions and i will follow up. we looked at a variety of things aincluding aour cost including a competition aincluding a local conditions and exchange rates and you know a number of different things and say there's not a there's no a. formula for determining it it's a it's done by a level of judgment looking at a number of different ah points an data points and we do that reagion by region but we shouldn't as enmessors think of that as something struck. ral that you intend to use to flex am you don't demand curves something or more globly it's something we've always done and so it's not something that is new to this year and thi cycle i i'm out of the. follow up im e i you've introduced a lot of new services of the past few years and these have become a much more important part of the the apple story can you maybe sure you know either some matricks on some of the new services like t v bloss in terms of paid sobs a and and. aryou measuring the success of these investments well we look at a number of things internally ah that we don't share externally and so you can bet that we're looking at a subs and arpoos and a conversions and chern and all of the normal things you would look at with a subscription. uiness ah but we're not going to get into sharing those on an individual service basis the what we're trying to do is givyon visibility to the aggregate ah number of subscriptions that weve had which a luga covered earlier with the seven forty five across both a. apple branded and third party and so we're giving you an aggregated view of it instead of the at the individual service level but you can bet that we're managing it at the individual service level thank them yuh thank yeu wamsey a replay of to day's call. be available for two weeks on apple pod cast as a web cast on apple dot colm slash investor and via telephone the numbers for the telephone replay are eight eight eight two zero three one one one two or seven one nine four five seven zero eight two zero please enter confirmation code. even one four one four one five these replays will be available by approximately five p m pacific time to day members of the press with additional questions can contact josh rosen stock at four zero eight eight six two one one four two financial annalysts can contact me with additional questions at six six nine. two seven two four zero two thank you again for joining us this concludes to day's conference we appreciate your participation. 