shucks good day and welcome to apple cue for fisco year twenty twenty twenty one earning's comforts call to days call is being recorded at this time for opening remarks and introductions i would like to turn the call over to cages called the rector of bester relations in corporate finance. but he'd go home thank you good afternoon and thank you for joining us speaking to day first is apoplecy o tim cook and he'll be followed by cepho lukamiestre after that we'll open the call to questions from annalist please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion to day. consist of forward looking statements including without limitation those regarding revenue gross margin operating expenses other income in expense taxes capital occasion and future business outlook including the potential impact of coveted nineteen on the company's business and results of operations. these statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results or trends to differ materially from our forecast for more information please refer to the risk factors discussed in apples most recently filed annual report on form ten k and the form eight k followed the e c to day along with the associated press relay. appleas seems no obligation to upgate any four looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates i'd like to now turn the call over to tip thanks pages and good afternoon every one and thank you for joining the call to day a year ago i spoke to you about the atmosphere of uncertainty in which we were living and the way it had. come to define our daily experience both as people and as accompanying to day much has changed profoundly so and while we are still living through unprecedented times we are encouraged by progress around the world i am grateful to our teams who have stayed resolutely focussed on our customers and to persuade. of innovation on their behalf we've aimed to help our customers navigate the world as it is while empowering them to create the world as a candy whether its public health workers managing vaccination campaigns on iphone or students returning to class rooms full of ipaths or family staying connected. facetime it is an honor to know that what we make matters and to see that reflected in the world and in our performance this does for year we reported three hundred and sixty six million dollars in revenue which represents thirty three for cent annual growth we also achieve more than twenty per cent. groweth across all our prodigalities and in every geographic segment and to day apples reporting another very strong quarter demand was very robust and we set a new september quarter record of eighty three point four billion dollars up twenty nine per cent to last year and in line. with what we discussed on our last call despite larger than expected supply constraints we estimate these constraints had around a six million dollar revenue dollar in fact driven primarily by industry wide silicate shortages and covet related manufacturing disruptions even so. we set an all time record for mac and quarterly records for iphone i had wearable home and accessories representing thirty per cent year with your growth in products our services business performed better than we expected where we had an all time record of eighteen point three billion dollars and grew twenty six per cent year over year. her and we sat quarterly records in every geographic segment with strong double diggerates across the board during fiscal twenty twenty one we armed nearly one third of our revenue from emerging markets and doubled our business in india and via non we are optimistic about the few. especially as we see strong demand for our new products at the end of the september quarter we introduce our iphone thirteen line up as well as the apple white series seven i pad and i had many all of which represent significant advances the ikon thirteen and i found thirteen many alongside. the icon thirteen pro and pronax are setting a new standard with their superfluous performance advance camera systems longer battery life and brilliant superregnate displays customers are loving the night's generation i had which features of beautifully sharp display and twice the story. of the previous generation as well as the new i paid many with its ultra portable design and impressive speed and performance and we've been thrilled with the reviews that apple watch series seven has earned for its larger display faster charging and refined design and just last week we. produced the completely reimagined mac macbeth pro powered by the extraordinary in one pro and in one mace chips these are a most powerful note books ever with gain changing performance in battery life and the world's best note book display we think customers are going to love macbeth pro whether. editing vitio and final capro or making music in logic prose and so much more they'll be able to do things never before possible on a note book we also announced our all new air ponds that features special audio and industry leading sound longer battery life and an all new design. for the home we added three new colors to our home tide many linea which offers seamless emigration across apples products and services we also announced a new subscription tear to apple music called apple music boys which offered subscribers access to the services catalogue of ninety million songs all through. power of syria across the board teams at apple continue to drive unmatched innovation through the seamlessly emigrated hardware softer experience we've long prided ourselves on i owe us fifteen and i paddo as fifteen have created more ways than ever to say productive whither. using focus to avoid distractions or quick note to capture a thought macaulay offers new ways to connect with friends and family get more done and work fluidly across apple devices and watchos a has made apple watch even more powerful and more ways than ever to say active and. tracked her health on the go we never had a more diverse range of services for a customer to choose from and we've been very encouraged by our performance which reflects growing customary enthusiasm and satisfaction in just its first two years novelty be plus has already proved itself to fans of. round the world and i want to congratulate the incredible actors writers story tellers producers and everyone else whose behind the scenes work has made that success possible this quarter novelty be plus one eleven images including the a war trial standing comedy series for. at lasso that show has continued to bring light and laughter to fans all over the world with its boundless optimism and the large cast of characters we couldn't be more proud of our entire line of the content from the gripping second seasons of the morning show and truth be told to our newest programmes swath. which is out to morrow the response has been incredible this quarter also saw major upgate's to fitness plus including the addition of new activities like meditation in plotties and the announcement of group work out a feature that brings fitness and friends together we also shared the fit. this plus will soon be available in fifteen new countries bringing workhouse for every age and skill level to millions or people around the world and those are just two of the services our customers are loving this quarter apple card won a jaded power reward for customer satisfaction in its very first year of eligibility. the outstorm continues to help people find the absence they depend on to say productive creative and entertained and on apple news we launch the newt part of programme that expands apple support for journalism while creating an even better business opportunity for publishers. and we continued to sport our customers around the world were glad to report we opened several new apple stores this quarter we opened a beautiful store in chanchais which is our first store in the honan province of china we also just opened our third store in eastern bowl and we recently added a. or in the bronx which means we are now in all five burrows of new york city all of our stores are now opened world wide and have been for seven weeks as we enter our busiest time of year i particularly want to share my gratitude for our resultings customers have never relied on our products more and our result seems. truly answered the call we need our customers where they are with many ways to shop to our on line and retail stores and can help and choose the best product for them and get it up in running we are also excited about our education and dishes this month we introduce the everyone can coat early learners programme. offering free resources which help students in elementary school learn coating we see education not only as a fundamental good in its own right but as a great equalizing force a world where all people can excess of quality education isn't just a smarter world it's a more equitable one. that desire to create a more just and equable world is the guiding principle behind our racial equity and justice initiative this quarter apple shared plans to expand our hundred million dollars in dustment by an additional thirty million dollars those funds will be used in a number of ways including the creative. of a new local aesthetic sorting institution equity and innovation hop the hob will dramatically expand the technology and resources for students in the stemfields those programmes join our ever expanding work with historically black colleges and universities including the now forty five. communicating centers and original hobs serving under represented communities across the united states this month we were also happy to welcome the anogrum class of developers and outer canoers to the apple developer academy and detroit the academy is apples first in the united states and is as. trying to help prepare students for jobs in the thriving iowas at the colony which supports more than two point one million jobs across all fifty states in august we shared our impacted celebrators first cohort a black latin axe and indigenous own businesses whose pioneering work in green techology. clean energy serves many of the communities most impacted by climate change more broadly we are already carbon neutral as a company and this quarter we made new strides toward reaching our goal of carbon neutrality across our entire supply chain and the life cycle of our devices by twenty third. thirty we made significant product advances in this area i paid and i paid many now come with a hundred per cent beside old aluminum enclosure the antennae on i found thirteen is made up of obstacled plastic water bottles which marks an industry first and as our. summers are seen when they purchase i find thirteen we re design the package into a lemonade that outer plastic ground which will allow us to avoid using six hundred metric tons of plastic this brings us closer to removing all plastic and our package in by twenty twenty twenty five we also make all plastic in our packageing by twenty twenty twenty five we also make. good progress toward our goal to one day make our products without taking anything from the earth without the white series seven for example ninety nine per cent of the rare earth elements we use are recitaled i had a cop twenty six i am also pleased to report that we have more than double the number of our suppliers. who have committed to becoming carbon neutral by twenty thirty we are very encouraged to see the growth in this area and we will continue to drive those changes in the supply train in the months in years to come we never viewed our environmental work as a side project teams of cross apple were pushing this work forward in the same spirit. innovation we bring to our products and services we are determined to be a ripple in the pine that drives a far greater change from the condemnic to climb a change to iniquity and injustice local challenges won't abide solitary solutions and we feel a deep sense of responsibility. hell we are a kretaly crowd of the product line up we have going into the holiday season and we are encouraged by the customer response which seem and while we cannot no exactly which path the pandemic will take the world down in the months to come we feel quite confident that this new year will be driven by. the values that guide us and by the innovation that defines us with that i'll hand it over to lucca for a deeper dive to on our performance this quarter look up answered tim but i've known every one we at least would afford better strong financial results for the september quarter copying a breakfast setting biscay. two thousand and twenty one we set a september quarter revenue record of eighty three point four billion and increase of nearly nineteen billion or twenty nine per cent from a year ago despised larger than expected supply constrains we also reached new cuefal records in every geographic segment with strong double double doubled. jit drawled in each one of them and he was a regular september quarter for both products and services on the product side revenue was sixty five point one billion a thirty per cent over a year ago as we experienced better than expected demand for our products despite. by constraints that we estimated at the round six million dollars we grew in each of our present categories with an all time record for mac and september quarter records for iphon for eye path and for wearable's home and accessories this level of safe performance come. with the immense loyalty of our customers and the strength of our equal system drove our installed days of active devices to a new old american our services sat an old time revenue record of eighteen point three million up twenty six per cent over a year ago with september. quarter records in every geographic segment and in every serviceous category company gross marching was forty two point two per cent down one hundred ten basis points from last quarter due to higher costs and at different mix of products partially offset by leverage products grows margin. was thirty four point three per cent down one hundred seventy paces point sequentially a higher costructures were partially offset by leverage and mixed services grows marching was seventy point five per cent up seventy paces point sequentially mainly due to a different mix nerienka. of twenty point six billion and i knew that earnings per share of a dollar and twenty four cents both grew over sixty per cent year over year and were september quarter records i am getting to more detail for each of our revenue categories i for revenue group forty seven for seven for. sent year over year and set a september quarter record of thirty eight point nine billion despite supply constraints as customary demand was very strong therefore twelve family continued to perform very well and were seeing enthusiastic customary spots to the launch of our iphone thirteen family. we also grew double digits in each geographic segment setting september quarter wreckers in both developed and emerging markets the latest survey of u s consumers from four five one re search indicates iphone casimirs satisfaction of ninety eight per cent for iphon an houring. acting stall bays of eye phones reached a new off time high for mac who said an old time revenue record of ninefold two billion despised by constraints driven by strong demand for our m one power with maputaeuil in fact our last five quarters for mad at. been the best fight for us ever for the category i have performers was also strong with a september quarter revenue record of eight point three billions of twenty one per cent in spite of significant supply constrains a customary man for for the ipapero also powered by m one. was very strong for bud mac and ipard we continued to see a combination of high levels of customers satisfaction and first time values our own half of the customers purchasing mac and i valued in the quarter were new to that product and in the most recent surveys of u s from sue. from four five one research cassim's satisfaction was ninety seven per cent for both mac and i bat our continued investment in enactment he now had a knack is taken computing to the next level we have redisigned and reenternated both products to provide customers and unmatched expiate. variance which resulted in record fiscal years for both categories we are carrying this momentum also in the enterprise market for example as if he has already deployed maps to tens of thousands of their employees to day following the launch of our new m one micropolas. eight as they pieced one into avid to the growing list of m one mack offerings available to their globular cypher's another example is francis national railway company a sensi f which equipps all trained drivers with ions to manage their entire daily work for. and train operations helping to lower energy and maintenance cost in fact the ipas have been so well received that ninety per cent of the drivers choose to purchase them for personal use at the end of the corporate device refresh cycle next whereable so called. home and accessories sudden new september quarter record of eight point eight billion we continue to improve and expand our product offerings in this category which we believe improved the over all customary experience and show case the integration between our products and services upper watch air pods and home pod minnie are foul. of devices in their own right appeared with our other products softer and services they create unique experiences like switching audiences as i mentioned we reached an all time revenue record of eighteen point three billion with all time records. for cloud services music vidio advertising apple care and payment services and a september porter record for the half store our continued investment and strong execution in services has helped us to deliver a record sixty eight billion dollars in revenue during peaceful two thousand. twenty one nearly tripling this category in six years these impressive results reflect the positive momentum we are seen on many fronts first our installed base continues to grow and reach an all time high across each geographic segment next we continue to see increased cassim and g. with our services the number of paid accounts on our vigils or content stores through double digits and reached a new all time high during the september quarter in each geographic segment also pay subscriptions continued to show very strong growth we now have more than seven hundred and forty five million. kate's subscriptions across her services on our platform which is up more than one hundred and sixty million from last year and nearly five times the number of pates subscriptions we had less than five years ago and finally a sting mentioned earlier without the new services that we think how accustomed as we love and we. continued to improve the breath and quality of our current services of things this at twenty walked twenty one was not only a big year for services but for our entire company during the past twelve months we grew out business like thirty three per cent or ninety one billion dollars reaching nearly three hundred and sixty. six billion dollars of revenue with record lever performers across the board every product of category and every geographic segment set a new annual revenue record and was up at least twenty per cent for official twenty let me now turn to a cash position. we under the quarter with one other ninety one billion in cash personal feeble securities we should six my five million of new turned debt retired one point three billions turned that and decreased commercial paper by two billions living as we took our debt of one hundred twenty five billion as a result nash was sixty sixty six. billion at the end of the quarter as we continued to make progress towards our goal of net cash neutral overtime as our business continues to generate very strong cash flow we were also able to return twenty four billion to share all this during the september quarter this included three point six billion in dividends and equ. lens and twenty billion two open market reproacheses of one hundred and thirty seven million appropriations will twenty five an additional fine million of shares in the final settlement of our seventeenth a s r r a a. a like point of view our outlook which includes the types of fool and lucany formation the patience referred to at the beginning of the call given the continuance sir but compared on the world in the next room we are not providing writing of guidance but we are surely some that i can only. sides bathe on your function that the cold created impetual business do not worse than from what we are projecting to day for the coming quarter are you mentioned earlier. mentioned earlier during the september quarter supply constrains impacted our revenue but there round six million dollars we estimate the impact from supplying the strains with the larger we are seeing high demands for our progress. and expect what she very saw in it year of a year raven you grow and to set a new revenue record during this attempt the december quarter which i revenue for each brogue of category to grow on a year away your basis except for i cut which we expect to decline year of a year doses. the earth earth earth h h h h h. eight from the september quarter but three months wrong we expect rose margin to be between forty one point five and forty two point five per cent respect opposite to be between twelve point four and twelve point six p m. dollars we expect all i need to be around negative fifty million dollars excluding any potential impact from the mart to market of minority investments and now at that rate to be around sixteen per cent finally today our boat directs us to clear a cash divide into twenty two cents per share of common stock. favorable on november eleventh to thousand and twenty one to shut all this over like it as of november eight two thousand and twenty one we that that's open to call two questions thank you lucca we ask that you limit yourself to two questions operator may we have the first question please. thank you a first question comes from shanning cross from cross research i've thank you very much i'll damn my money and he talks a bit more about pacific supply chain issues you sigh and how you think improvements are delighted manufacturing disruptions in south astasia the second of the. the covetous interruptions have improved ah materially across october to where we currently are and so for this quarter we think that the primary a causal supply chain our related shortages will be the chip shorted. ah it'll affect ah i think it is affecting i should say pretty much most of our products currently ah and but but from a demand point of view a demand is very robust and so put part of this is that demand also is very strong. but we believe that by the time we finish the quarter thus the constraints will be larger than the six million that we experience in two four uncle a great fellow turned a push forward in the next quarter of a mile and he added a different question to the intrigue are you just turning to some. more and more things on a radical basis ah and and how is you thinking about that i mean you have any of the new knacks in that weakly keeps union even by for a monthly the charge and that how do you think that's that's driving sails and how shall we think about you know per cent may be of of the portfolio that's now available and i don't want it. how much revenue is now under a recurring nature but ah it's it definitely seems as your ship do more and more to make me sort of a abundant sailor or in offering for me a consumer's standpoint while you just pay one price every month and you get you know all of your apple devices in apples are. think you you have the first product shannon that really sold on a monthly basis was i found and that began to happen in the inn in the u s as an example i shortly after the the subsidy kind of world changed markedly and so ah. i would say that predominantly ah the mode of buying an iphone in the united states is on a monthly ah kind of plan to day ah for the balance of the products still the ah most popular would be buying them outright but we are seen. a more and more demand for monthly payments and so in an a so we want to give the customer what they want and so you will see us do more more things like that than we'll law meet the customers worth it and provide the price and that they want and in a way that they want to pay for. for it i don't know the percentage ah a product that has sold that way to die but it is increasing faith thank you young thanks shan't it do you any with evercore. besides perfect calm next morning it offs me and every one i'm off to his well off you know he is when i think about his supply of gin hens he's up about six minutes of timber getting bigger and december ah he'll gimme out as often as a honey had come forth as this is really demand of getting deformed were missus pett. getting distorted weight somewhere else ah and if you think about the supplies and bottle legs up yes you either see all you manage a lot of the stuff but you feel comfortable because on a beach in december and believe it from there or what at the projection of polite improvement yet when what i say comes to the lawn is i feel like we may break. progress on the covet related ah disruptions and that ah happened across the month of october and were in a materially better position to day ah it is difficult to predict covet and so i am not going to predict out where it goes but i can just tell you that as up to day we're in a materially better position than we. or ah in september and in the first several weeks of october in turn to the chip shortage the chip shortage is happening on legacy notes primarily ah we buy leading edge notes and we're not having issues on leading edge notes but on legacy notes. we compete with a many different companies for supply and it's difficult to forecast ah win those things well balanced because you'd have to know how kind of how the economys can have been twenty two and so i don't and the accuracy of every one else's demand projections and so i don't. so comfortable in ah in making a prediction i think it would be a ah in a would be subject to too much an accuracy ah but i do feel very comfortable with our operational tame i think we've got a well class one and a i'm sure there. they're doing everything they can do to a collapse cycle toms and improve yields and do all the things that you can do in in addition to fundamental a capacity investment to to remedy the situation got it in an off move half of matthew. and grow smudgeons up for december celia sent you down gossmark's steep flat leading down a little bed where sloppy sided the timber ah neil needed such about soaking historically out of expected correspondence be often discovered given how much revenue leverett you had felt when ah so maybe one of the puts in decent gosmrse margin that i was only in a little flattish guide were sent his. harcourt you've now been well ah as you know that typically in augusty with the december being the holiday season we do get leverage as you say by its also the period of the year where we launch a lot of new products and end a ah as you know we launch essentially in every product radically we launch new products. demand is very strong but as you know when when we lunch his new products we tend to have higher cost structures at the beginning of the cycle and so that's what violence is dissolved ah obviously from a year of a year's standpoint it's actually a significant expansion right because when you look at. aha what we did a a year ago in the indest december quarter to the nine point eight per cent this clearly indicates a significant expansion take some of it commanded the next question please. will your next room be ready with morgan stanley thank you given this supply kate is blurring that the man pictured for idle thirteen what date appoints can you share that help and vestures understand whether demand is tracking to a product cycle that is flat rowing or down from the very shore. i found twelve and maybe on that front lucca you could also come in and where you acted at a quarter from a channel inventory standpoint for i found relative to a normal product faculty i never follow it yah look i think i can take both of those the trail of its way as you would expect in a constrained environment i. phone channelments were ended below the targeted range ah and and is currently below it and so that that's that in terms of the blurring of demand we look at a cave we look at a number of different ah data points we look at demand across our allmine store. demanded retail ah the we look through to back orders on the carrier channels ah the ones that do take back orders there ah we we ah look at channel orders as well and so we have a number of different a data points that we use to. conclude ah how strong demand is and we feel not very very good about where demand is right now ah we're and were working feverishly on the supply side of the ah and can it follow up we reach at length surveyed four thousand consumers neva. china and the feed back is most of them don't want a paper ups or services direct with the developer they value the security privacy ease of transactions with half stores so how do you think about balancing the regulators bush for more choice with a customer base that's happy with the. existing experience and and just as i've as a following to that i'm how or how are you and lucca thinking about the potential impact of services revenue growth rate as some of the changes to the outdoor go into effect he's a maisie who'll solve the song of the assor is too. ah keep our focus on privacy and security and so these are the two major tenants that have produced over the years a very trusted environment we are consumers and developers ah come together and consumers can trust the developers on the developers in. absent or what they say they are and the developers get a huge ah a audience to to sell their a soft word too and so that's that sort of number one on our list everything else is a distant second ah and so what would. her doing is working to explain the decisions that we've made that are key to ah keeping the privacy in security ah there which wishes to not have sideloading and not have alternate ways ah on the iphone where it opens up the ice. to a hundred you to absent and also ah it gets by the privacy restrictions that we put on the abstort and so we're very very focussed in discussing the promising security a element to the abstor with the regulators and legislators. thus they say three and the expressive ways we've an expression from dated void with a eubias pray thank you kaiser and i've have two precautions one takes a theoretical so you don't covet supply jane in pretty centred. tell the call but maybe just a bigger picture of how you thinking about it philosophically given what you just sort of one through of the last twelve eight months so i don't mean by that it's their sort of a recaliption needed or an adjustment around your supply to the infinite structure and. a sort of renowned and sir handel asserted the destruction that seemed to crop off from time to time in the network yet i don't i don't see a fundamental error of it that we've made is that it's that sort you're a taking out intrensive of creating the environment that we are in. ah it was created for a number of reasons the pandemon came along some ah some people in the industry and some people outside the industry thought that the pandemic would reduce command they pulled their orders down ah things reset and what really happened was. demand went up and went up even more than the then a ah a straight trend would but forget and so the the industry is working through that now ah i'm making a little overly simplicity there's some other things like yields and things like that ah. better that are having as well but those things are are mainly manageable in the course of time and so what what we're doing is working with our partners on making sure that they have supply that we need in making sure that our demand statements sir are acted as we see them in and so forth. and at the same time we are reducing our lee times and in cycle times so so that when you get a chip off a fad that is quickly as possible it's in a product of shipping ah then you know and and also helping the fat partners increase their yields and so the duck duck duck. those things are our things that were doing ah we also support the chipsact ah and the in investment there too i'll put more investment in the in the in the ground and ah it's so we're spinning some time ah. the sitting for the subject is well break in that telephone i do not pity me to implicate that you doesn't stop just maybe him off that way it may be just as a quick flower walked in he thinks about in a purchasing devices valuablely because months earlier but maybe can you just touch on you know the partnerships that you have with parishes and supports that they have given. in you for the glass couple years not spin a key component of your success you know the type relationships that you have globily a um ito to think sort of this business motto as its currently sort of l and put together globularly a sort of a a permanent structure of meanings now carries it to be an interval part of its writing a demand for hot demand for hot. tones or noses sent by me to told them what transitory depending on the part of cycle that morning i think that five g has provided a a once in a decade kind of a thing is not a. one year and dawn and i think that ah we are motivated a there the carrier's motivated there with mutual interest ah and a customer benefits hugely from getting a a new phogy found at hespology and a number of others. features in it too ah in and so i think that i think everybody's a line on purpose the model that you paint is is i wouldn't call it a globe of model because they are different ah variations around the world depending upon the country. but but in general i think that the a marriage if you will a partnership between apple and the carrier channels never been stronger ah and that it's on very solid a footing thank you. the necessity is thank you not as there will take an expression from chris thank god with county company if i think within my question i have two of them two and tim i will give you a reprieve from the supplication questions i'd two months over this the first one is on. knew eighty the abstracting transplanted features and all the headlanders gone of recently and quite curious to feed back your scene of receipt from that advertisers and usurpers and habitables were impacted so charged your own apt business you just know the feed back in an added follow us this is the seat of your own apt business you must know the feed back in an adder follow us this. beck from customers is overwhelmingly positive a customers appreciate having the a option of whether they want to be tracked or not and so the there's an outpouring of a the customer's satisfaction there on the customer's side. reason that we did this is that as you know if you've befallen us for a while we've we believed that for decades not just in the just in the last year or so and we've historically rolled out a morn. more features overtime ah for to place the decision of whether to share data in what date of the share in the hands of the user where we believe that it belongs ah we don't think that's apples roll to decide and we don't think that another company's roll to the side but rather that the in. visual who owns the the date itself and so thus our motivation there there's no other motivation thought it doctor and that the very fair calculation thank you for that and then as a foot follows up a disconnection on the mobile giving it up still it has been some weakened action by the. from government to limit game time sinecure how that effects your absolute business in good geography and is at a league in twenty five battles the two enmity of the point thank you you mean limiting the sign on game says that what you are getting on you are exactly like the train of his defences of a king's. think i got it it's i very difficult to measure ah the he had what you with the policy of your sagging back for those people don't know is there's a policy ah to restrict ah kids a below a certain age ah to i think it's one. hour on friday saturday ah each and ah it's very difficult too to see the impact of it on the abstort at this point think it an expression please think it yet thanks can we have an expression please. thank you it is an expression from semitology with j p morgan i think i'm all digging my question i can't stay my winter move without forced to start upon your ah commendable strong demand across pragues and tis fit of life on pudding if you give us a bit more inside a ball what you. seeing in dumps of intent in dumps off either of grades from the instorves or even switchers greater fool if you can compare it life on tweed with a sum of due half feet back we are getting is for example extrong string activity in china so just wondering if you can get a bit more perennial there in comes of the hot word striving the demand than who is it coming from. don't talk so early too talk about i from thirteen because it's only been on the market for or less than thirty days now ah what i can tell you is going into the cycle i if you look at our results from last quarter ah we grew on upbraiders and switchers in the devil digits. and so both were very mean for the for the iphon results last quarter and so there's a their significant momentum in iphone and that in i would clearly characterize the demand that we were seeing currently as robust as you can tell. frondser some of the points that were are calling on me on my soul my captain and tom at the forelock i against back to supply jim when i wanted to get off more relative to vast implications there aren't up what he hearing is not only dealing his. all the company in cosquay harp so ah as it looked too well as in pink about this cup coming like a hull while you look at manage bumper and cosmead his head wind and if that something is seen armed took coming through the supplication his wits and occurrences in the cosmosy and guidance simply gave him a fire fully. one five to forty two five ah i would tell you that we are seeing a significant increase in freight cause and in i would assume that that is pretty consistent across a different companies and so we've clearly seen some inflation there. thanks to me of an exquisite please thank you we'll take our next question from gin siva with city group thank you and i'll ask both my questions of the same time probably the first ones for tim on the services revenue much better than a. expected you know can you give us some details about what drove that was at apple stores more open some more apple care one more apple one or a cage or two beer fitness it is probably for lukeon to ply chain when he mentioned the unsoplied train head once in a get worse on then he mentioned six billions this quarter this. two ways to think about your terminology of worse is it the delta from two billions that you identified three months ago that went to six billions so therefore the delta four billion gets worse were you the same cow and therefore to buff ten billion for december quarter you say it just gets higher than the six billion that the teachers identified. ah brilliant o'clock think too much to you martin yet i'm going to take the second question that you ask in lucre to take the first one on services as just in the reverse in the way you coin that ah on the on the supply of constraints will be saying is that ah the number the amount of the denomination. amount of supply constraints for cue wand we estimate to be a larger than six million and so at noon it is important to know that we are getting a lot more supplying cu one than we hadn't two four obviously because our sequence. quintial growth is significant and we have very solid growth year or year and so the amount of supplies growing dramatically it's just that the demand is so robust that a we we in vision having supply constraints for the quarter. kept him on that end and general services the twenty six per cent the growth raid that we had was better than what we were expecting at the beginning of the quarter and it was really across the board is difficult to single out the specific area because we set all time records on flour. wheat we said you know all time wreckers across the board a bouquetr music beadle advertising payment services the officer was a september quarter exiles thrown across the board in a when we look at the services business we always think about some fundamental fact was that allow us to to dwell. good visibility over the susceptibility of the business right the fact that the installed base continues to grow ah that's that obviously a positive the fact that the number of people that are actually pain on the on the platform continues to grow double digits and. that obviously increases our opportunity are the number of subscriptions that we have ah on the platform i as we mentioned during the call seven hundred and forty five million paid sobs rang now it sir in increase of one hundred and sixty million first with just a twelve months ago. right and obviously the fact that we continue to launch new services and new offerings within the services that we already have new features ah death you know obviously gives us a lot of momentum a going forward we're very fortunate we have a very. now is a very large business sixty eight million dollars into us one month and very diversified we ah in a week we sell a lot of different services and the our customers sir seem to all to really enjoy the experience that they have upon the platforms take as much of the details. thanks to me of the next question please thank you if i go next question from chris casey with raymond james yes thank you on my first question i it's a question about your ability to recapture ourselves that you were unable to fill in cufort. you once it ain't you too i'm and you have some some experience in that from last year wind up the iphone not all the models wants the same time and some are late and you did recapture some of that as you went past the holidays do you think that we should expect similar behavior this year. and in with that also as it will blow on a categories behave similarly meaning that there are either saints or pottakeries where she missed holidays you need just miss the south i think there are a some products that people buy as gifts that if it's not there that is perishable. ah but i think that ah we have a lot of products as well that people will wait for and would expect those to to a recaptured and in a different time period so it's a combination a for. of the certain quarter of the holiday quarter right at the waves h m has a follow up could you speak to i phone nix and i'm a one of those we note it is that the delivery time for all i phones are a part of long because of the. strength forbid longer on the pro and the mach ah in that a function of a supply or or demand to perhaps both on any other day i would imagine you have a little better handle on that this year given that telephone to up a moth to the same time yes this really sewer leases make some. on next at this point because it has been we have been in a subconstrained environment of the the mixed becomes more obvious once supplying the manner of our balance don't they think it to me of an expression please don't they think it thinks to me of an expression please. thank you i'll take an exquisite from harsh corn with piper's hammer yaki a guy's first of all goods are managing to display concerns its obviously affecting everybody's silk gratulation to lend him one for you a strategic question when apple things about should he declare as that that as a. of my own for example suffers high priority but you're also one of the largest semi conductor companies if the company was tan alone so curious about the kind of import that i'm thinking that goes into owning some piece of technology for example when we survey people as they batteries are unscreened over the importance of. eating an apple example what part of an apple from looking at areas like that we look at one's where we believe we can make a substantial difference and a have a level of differentiation and so you know ah we've put a lot of energy in the silican's face because we. have felt that we could god design and develop products that we could not if we were in the just buying what's available in the commercial market and as you conceive more recently we made that call ah on the map as well and have shifted to our to our own ships. there and so really depends on whether we see a way to do something that's differentiated or not and ah in i wouldn't want a rule i wouldn't want to rule anything out it's more of whether whether or not we see our way clear or two to doing some. that is habitually better we so likely done that eh well hunters we so like we've done that in the superior ah thanks thank you for all tim and then i've got one for lou carroll and when i go back to a question that i may gosh to allure in the call about to push my against so when i look at this. timber corduroy us of his lobster grew much faster than the product business margin was down and singing for december but i think you're pure pure pure perfectly saying that there's a lot of new product launches would that not go into optics for example marking execrazables to cogs or is there something that having any cyclone. fight here i am that is certainly obviously that we have large expenses in remarking and advertising of course when we launch new projects but the idea what happens we always make our products better and which means adding you to knowledge and you fish us with a product so typically when. you move from one generation of brothers to the next one the cost raptures than to be higher particular the beginning of the cycle and so when you make that transition there is always some level of marching compression from a the transition to a new product ah the other the other asks. you mean to think about it is the fact that the december quarter is the holiday season and so the percentage of products business that we have in the holy quarter is higher than when we have in the september quarter for example and and therefore as you know because. the services margins are higher than the products marching is also a mix between the products and services business that plays into the griffinrose margins for the company writer and that's what you see as you move sequentially from september to december very well thank you so much. and you can we have the next question please take your eunuchs from wantley lawn and think of america i have thank you i am at that question about a bradley about prizeing off you products and a few apples want the rifle. or jeannette a slightly lower prize then than where the swell was launched last year in china i can you maybe help us think through what words some of the things that you look at in deciding that and is that in action that you good a m take more broadly than in other regions and i will follow. we look at a variety of things ah including ah our cost including a competition including a local conditions an exchange rights and you know a number of different things and so there's not a there's no a who. formula for determining it it saw it stunned by a level of judgment looking at a number of different ah points a date of points if we do that reason by reason but we shouldn't at the letters think of that has something struck. curled at you intent to use the flecks on it all demand curves the something more globbly it's something we've always done and so it's not something that is new to this year and disciple. i'm he i even to do some lotting you services of the past few years and these have become a much more important part of the of the apple story can you make me share your you know either some mattress or some of the new services like kivy blossom terms of paid sobs i'm and and. are you letering the faculty that left me well we look at a number of things internally ah that we don't share externally and so you can bet that we're looking at ah sobs and arquebus and a conversions and churn and all of the normal things you would look at with this description. business ah but we're not going to get into sharing those on an individual service basis that what we're trying to do is give you visibility to the aggregate ah numberless inscriptions that we've had which shall move a covered earlier with the seven forty five across both than. apple branded in third party and so were giving you an aggregated view of it instead of the at the individual service level but you can bet that we're managing it at the individual service level but you can bet it's called hectic yep thank you walmsie a reply of to day's call. be available for two weeks on apple pod castes as a web cast on apple bout com slash investor and via telephone the numbers for the telephone reply are eight eight eight two there are three one one one two or seven one nine four five seven zero eight two zero please enter confirmation code. seven one four one four one five these relays will be available by approximately five p m civic time to day members of the press with additional questions can contact our frozen stock at four zero eight six to one one four two financial annalists can contact me with the additional questions at six six six nine. to seven two four zero two thank you again for joining us this concluded the month's conference with persia's participation. 