good day and welcome to the apple cue for fiscal year twenty twnty one earnings conference call today's call is being recorded at this time for opening remarks and introductions i would like to turn the call over to tajusgalan director of invested relations an corporate finance. please go ahead thank you good afternoon and thank you for joining us speaking to day first is apple c  o tim cook and he'll be followed by c f o luka maestri after that we'll open the call to questions from analist please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion to day wil. consist of forward looking statements including without limitation those regarding revenue gross margin operating expenses other income and expense taxes capital aplication and future business outlook including the potential impact of coved nineteen on the company's business and results of operations. these statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results or trends to differ materially from our forecast for more information please refer to the risk factors discussed in apple's most recently filed annual report on form ten ka and the form eih k filed with the s  c to day along with the associated press rele. s apelas seems no obligation to update any forwad looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates i'd like to now turn the call over to tim thanks tajus and good afternoon every one and thank you for joining the call to day a year ago i spoke to you about the atmosphere of uncertainty in which we were living and the way it had. come to define our daily experience both as people and as a company to day much has changed profoundly so and while we are still living through unprecedented times we are encouraged by progress around the world iun grateful to our teams who have stayed resolutely focused on our customers and the pers. uit of innovation on their behalf we've aimed to help our customers navigate the world as it is while empowering them to create the world as it can be whether its public health workers managing vaxination campaigns on ithone or students returning to class rooms full of ipaths or family staying connected o. ver face time it is an honour to know that what we make matters and to see that reflected in the world and in our performance this fiscal year we reported three hundred and sixty six billion dollars in revenue which represents thirty three per cent annual growth we also achieve more than twenty per c. cent growth across all of our protic categories and in every geographic segment and today aple is reporting another very strong quarter demand was very robust and we set a new september quarter record of eighty three point four billion dollars up twenty nine per cent from last year and in li. ne with what we discussed on our last call despite larger than expected supply constraints we estimate these constraints had around a six billion dollar revenue dollar impact driven primarily by industry wide silican shortages and covet related manufacturing disruptions even so. we set an all time record for mack and quarterly records for yphone ipad at weruple's home and accessories representing thirty per cent year over year growth in products our services business performed better than we expected where we had an all time record of eighteen point three billion dollars and grew twenty six per cent year over ye. er and we set quarterly records in every geographic segment with strong double digit groth across the board during fiscal twenty twenty one we earned nearly one third of our revenue from emerging markets and doubled our business in india and viatnomm we are optimistic about the fu. ure especially as we see strong demand for our new products at the end of the september quarter we introduce our iphone thirteen line up as well as the aplewite series seven ipad and ipad many all of which represent significant advances the ichone thirteen and iphone thirteen many alongs. ide the ithone thirteen pro and promax are setting a new standard with their superfast performance advance camera systems longer battery life and brilliant superretina displays customers are loving the ninth generation ipad which features a beautifully sharp display and twice the story. ge of the previous generation as well as the new iped many with its ultraportable design and impressive speed and performance and we've been thrilled with the reviews that applewatch series seven has earned for its larger display faster charging and refined design and just last week we int. roduce the completely reimagined mackbook pro powered by the extraordinary im on pro and im one max chips these are our most powerful notebooks ever with gan changing performance and battery life and the world's best notebook display we think customers are going to love mackbook pro whether th. r editing vidio and final cupro or making music and logic pro and so much more they'll be able to do things never before possible on a note book we also announced our all new airpods that feature spacial audio and industry leading sound longer battery life and an all new design. for the home we added three new colours to our home pied manny lineup which offers seamless intigration across apples products and services we also announced a new subscription ter to apple music called apple music voyce which offers subscribers access to the services catalogue of ninety million songs all through. the power of seri across the board teams at apple continued to drive unmatched innovation through the seamlessly integrated hardware software experience we've long prided ourselves on i o s fifteen and ipat o es fifteen have created more ways than ever to say productive whether ch. oosing focus to avoid distractions or quicknote to capture a thought maco es monoray offers new ways to connect with friends and family get more done and work fluidly across apple devices and watch oes ai has made apple watch even more powerful and more ways than ever to say active and. etract your health on the go we've never had a more diverse range of services for our customers to choose from and we've been very encouraged by ar performance which reflects growing customor enthusiasm and satisfaction in just its first two years apple teabee pluss has already proved itself to fans of. round the world and i want to congratulate the incredible actors writers story tellers producers and everyone else whose behind the scenes work has made that success possible this quarter apple t be plus won eleven immies including the award for outstanding comedy series for t. ad laso that show has continued to bring light and laughter to fans all over the world with its boundless optimism and beloved castic characters we couldn't be more proud of our entire line up of content from the gripping second seasons and the morning show and truth be told to our newest programmes swa. ger which is out to morrow the response has been incredible this quarter also saw major updates to fitness plots including the addition of new activities like meditation and ploties and the announcement of group workouts a feature that brings fitness and friends together we also share that fit. ness plus will soon be available in fifteen new countries bringing workouts for every age and skill level to millions more people around the world and those are just two of the services our customers are loving this quarter apple card won a jady power award for customer's satisfaction in its very first year of eligibility. the ap store continues to help people find the aps they depend on to stay productive creative and entertained and on apple news we launched a new partner programme that expands apple support for journalism while creating an even better business opportunity for publishers. and we continue to sport our customers around the world we're glad to report we've opened several new apple stores this quarter we opened a beautiful store in changshe which is our first store in the hunan province of china we also just opened our third store in istenboll and we recently added a. ore in the bronx which means we are now in all five bourrows of new york city all of our stores are now opened world wide and have been for seven weeks as we enter our busiest time of year i particularly want to share my gratitude for our retail teams customers have never relied on our products more and our retail teams ha. v truly answered the call we meet our customers where they are with many ways to shop through our online and retail stores and can help em choose the best product for them and get it up in running we are allso excited about our education initiatives this month we introduce the everyone can code early learners programme. offering free resources which help students in elementary school learn coding we see education not only as a fundamental good in its own right but as a great equalizing force a world where all people can access a quality education isn't just a smarter world it's a more equitable one. that desire to create a more just and equitable world is the guiding principle behind our racial equity and justice initiative this quarter ample shared plans to expand our hundred million dollar investment by an additional thirty million dollars those funds will be used in a number of ways including the crea. tion of a new global hyspanic serving institution equity in innovation hob the hug will dramatically expand the technology and resources for students in the stem fields those programes join our ever expanding work with historically black colleges and universities including the now forty five. community coating centrs and reginal hubs serving under represented communities across the united states this month we were also happy to welcome the innaugural class of developers and atropanuers to the apple developer academy in detroit the academy is apples first in the united states and is des. ine to help prepare students for jobs in the thriving i o s ap economy which supports more than two point one million jobs across all fifty states in august we shared our impact accelerators first cohort of black latin ax and indiginous own businesses whose pioneering work in green technology. and clean energy serves many of the communities most impacted by climate change more broadly we are already carbon neutral as a company and this quarter we made new strides toward reaching our goal of carbon nutrality across our entire supply chain and the life cycle of our devices by twenty thi. irty we've made significant product advances in this area ipad and ipad many now come with a hundred per cent recycled alluminum enclosure the antena on iphone thirteen is made up of upcycled plastic water bottles which marks an industry first and as our cu. stomers are seeing when they purchase ithon thirteen we redesign the packaging to eliminate the outer plastic rap which will allow us to avoid using six hundred metric tons of plastic this brings us closer to removing all plastic in our packaging by twenty twenty five we've also made. good progress toward our goal to one day make our products without taking anything from the earth with applewhite series seven for example ninety nine per cent of the rare earth elements we use are recycled ahead of pot twenty six i am also pleased to report that we have more than doubled the number of our suppliers. who hade committed to becoming carbon neutral by twenty thirty we're very encouraged to see the growth in this area and we will continue to drive those changes in the supply train in the months and years to come we've never viewed our environmental work as a side project teams across apple are pushing this work forward in the same spirit. of innovation we bring to our products and services we are determined to be a ripple in the pond that drives a far greater change from the pandemic to climate change to inequity and injustice global challenges won't abide solitary solutions and we feel a deep sense of responsibility to. help we are incredibly proud of the product line up we have going into the holiday season and we are encouraged by the customer response we've sen and while we cannot know exactly which path the pandemic will take the world down in the months to come we feel quite confident that this new year will be driven by. the values that guide us and by the innovation that defines us with that i'll hand it over to luca for a deeper dive to on our performance this quarter luka thank you tim good afternoon every one we are please to report very strong financial resurts for the september quarter capping a reckous setting fisca ye. two thousand ndtwenty one we sat a september quarter revenue record of eighty three point four billion an increase of nearly nineteen billion or twenty nine per cent from a year ago dis spite larger than expected supply constrains we also reached new cuwfour records in every geographic segment with strong double d. iged grot in each one of them and it was a reckles september quarter for both products and services on the products side revenue was sixty five point one billion up thirty per cent over a year ago as we experienced better than expected demand for our products despite su. pply constrains that we estimated at around six billion dollars we grew in each of our product categories with an all time record for mack and ceptember quarter records for iyphon for iypad and for wearables home and accessories this level of safe performance comb. ined with the umached loyalty of our customers and the strength of our eco system drove our installed base of active devices to a new altime record our services set an all time revenue record of eighteen point three billion up twenty six per cent over a year ago with september. quarter records in every geographic segment and in every services category company gross margin was forty two point two per cent down one hundred a ten basis points from last quarter due to higher costs and at different mix of products partially offset by leverage products gross margin. was thirty four point three per cent down one hundred a seventy basis points sequentially as higher cost structures were partially opset by leverage and mix service's gross marging was seventy point five per cent up seventy basis points sequentially mainly due to a different mix netyincome. of twenty point six billion and diluded earnings per share of a dollar and twenty four cents both grew over sixty per cent year over year and were september quarter records let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories i found revenue grow forty seven per. cent year over year and set a september quarter record of thirty eight point nine billion despite supply constrains as customare demand was very strong the efontoil family continued to perform very well and we're seeing enthusiastic customar response to the launch of our iphon thirteen family. we also grew double digits in each geographic segment setting september quarter records in both developed and emerging markets the latest survey of eus consumers from four five one research indicates yphone customer satisfaction of ninety eight per cent for yphone and ourin. active installed bays of iphones reached a new altime high for mack we sat an altime revenue record of nine point two billion despite supply constrains driven by strong demand for our m one powerd makbook air in fact our last five quarters for mak have. bein the best five quarters ever for the category ipat performance was also strong with a september quarter revenue record of eight point three billion up twenty one per cent in spite of significant supply constrains a scustomare demand for for the ipat pro also powered by m. n was very strong for both mak and ipad we continued to see a combination of high levels of customer satisfaction and first time buyers around half of the customers purchasing mack and ipa during the quarter were new to that product and in the most recent surveys of ues consu. mers from four five one research customer's satisfaction was ninety seven per cent for both mack and ipad our continued investment in enipa de mak is taken computing to the next level we have redesigned and re engineered both products to provide customers and unmatched exp. erience which resulted in reccord fiscal years for both categories we are carrying this momentum also in the enterprise market for example esa p has already deployed maks to tens of thousands of their employees to date following the launch of our new m one macuprolas. eek as ipi is planning to add it to the growing list of m one mack offerings available to their global sword force another example is francis national railway company s n c f which equips all train drivers with ipads to manage their entire daily workfl. ow and train operations helping to lower energy and maintenance cost in fact the ipas have been so well received that ninety per cent of the drivers choose to purchase them for personal use at the end of the corporate device refresh cycle next whereabots s. ome and accessories set a new september quarter record of eight point eight billion we continue to improve and expand our product offerings in this category which we believe improve the overall customar experience and show case the integration between our products and services upor watch airports and hompod mini are powerf. l devices in their own right cutpared with our other products softorant services they create unique experiences like switching ollyous seamlessly between devices on your airports turning to services as i mentioned we reach an all time revenue record of eighteen point three billion with all time records. for cloud services music vidio advertising apple care and payment services and a september quarter record for the afstore our continued investment and strong execution in services as helpt us deliver a recore sixty eight billion dollars in revenue during fiscal two thousand. end twenty one nearly tripling this category in six years these impressive results reflect the positive momentum we are seeing on many fronts first our installed base continues to grow and reach an all time high across each geographic segment next we continue to see increased customer enga. gement with our services the number of paid accounts on our digit ol content stores through double digits and reach a new all time high during the september quarter in each geographic segment also paid subscriptions continue to show very strong growth we now have more than seven hundred and forty five million. paid subscriptions across the services on our platform which is up more than one hundred and sixty million from last year and nearly five times the number of paid subscriptions we had less than five years ago and finally as stham mentioned earlier we' add in new services that we think our customers we love and we. continue to improve the breadth and quality of our current services offerings fisca twenty one twenty one was not only a big year for services but for our entire company during the past twelve months we grew out business by thirty three per cent or ninety one billion dollars reaching nearly three hundred and sixty. six billion dollars of revenue with record level performance across the board every prodoct category and every geographic segment set a new annual revenue record and was up at least twenty per cent or o official twenty twenty let me now turn to our cash position. we endered a quarter with one hundred ninety one billion in cash pas marketable securities we issued six point five billion of newturn debt retired one point three billion of turn debt and decrease commercial paper by two billion leaving us with total debt of one hundred a twenty five billion as a result neck cash was sixty six. billion at the end of the quarter as we continued to make progress towards our goal of net cash nutral over time as our business continues to generate very strong cashflo we were also able to return twenty four billion to share holders during the september quarter this included three point six billion in dividens and equi. balents and twenty billion thro open market repurchasers of one hundred and thirty seven million apo shares we also retired an addition al five million shares in the final settlement of our seventeenth a s ar as we move ahead into the december quarter. a like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward lookin iformation that pages referred to at the beginning of the call given the continued anser certaintly around the world in the near term we are not providing revenue guidance but we are share in some directionall in. besides based on the assumption that the covet related impacts of our business do not worse than from what we are projecting to day for the current quarter as we mentioned earlier as we. mentioned earlier during the september quarter supply constraints impacted our revenue but pay around six billion dollars we estimate the impact from supply constraints will be larger during the december quarter despite this challenge we are seeing high demands for our products. and expect to achieve very solid year over year revenue growt and to set a new revenue record during the septemthe december quarter wes a revenue for each brodor category to grow on a year ov er year basis except for ipad which we expect to decline year over year du su. to supply constraints for services we expect help. t from the september quarter but to remain strong we expect gross margin to be between forty one point five and forty two point five per cent we expect alpess to be between twelve point four and twelve point six billion. dollars we expect oi ene to be around negative fifty million dollars excluding any potential impact from the marktu market of minority investments and our tax rate to be around sixteen per cent finally to day our board of directors has declared a cash divident of twenty two cents per share of common stock. payable on november eleventh two thousand  twenty one to sheroll this overecet as of november eighth two thousand and twenty one with that that's open the call to questions thank you uka we ask that you limit yourself to two questions operator may we have the first question please. thank you o first question comes from shanning cross from cross research oh thank you very much oh jim i'm wondering can you talk a bit more about specific supply chan issues you saw and how you've seen improvements i think related manufacturing disruptions in south east asia the second of those. the covet diruptions have improved a materially across october to where we currently are and so for this quarter we think that the primary a cause of supply chain a related shortages wil will be the chip shortage. ah it'll effect ah i it's it is affecting i should say pretty much most of our products currently ah and but but from a demand point of view a demand is very robust and so what part of this is the demand also is very stron. ong but we believe that by the time weve finish the quarter that the constraints will be larger than the the six million that we experienced in cufour okay grea so yeu'll sort of push forward in the next quarter as well am can  you's a a different question cause i'm curious you're youre starting to fell m. ore and more things on a radable basis am and and how are you thinking about that i mean you you have ou know the new max in that wee we keep seeing you now you can buy for a monthly the charges and that how do you think that's that's driving sails and how should we think about younow per cent maybe of of the portfolio that's no available and and i don kno if you want ta t. llas how much revenue is now under under a recurring nature but am it's it it definitely seems as you're shifting more and more to maybe sort of a a bundled sale or or unow offering from a from a a consumer standpoint whele you just pay one price every every month and you get younow all of your apple devices and apple servic. think you o the first product channon that really sold on a monthly basis was iphon and that began to happen a in thein the u s as an example a shortly after the the subsidy kind of world changed a markedly and so a. i would say that predominantly a the the mode of buying an iphone in the united states is on a monthly a a kind of plan to day a for the balance of the products still the a most popular would be buying them outright but we are seeing. a more and more demand for monthly payments and so an and a so we want to give the customer what they want and so you'll you will see us do more and more things like that that wi'll a meet the customer weand prprovide the price that they want in a way that they want to pay f. or it i don't know the percentage a of products that are sold that way to day but it is increasing a thank you yep thanks shannon can we have the next question please we will hear next from amet darioni with everacor. perfect am thanks lot and good afternoon everyone am i have thro t as well off no iguess when i think about the supply chan headbens ayou talking about six bili in september getting bigger in december a e gi ia lot ta thesun howdya comfort that this is really demand ed getting goodforward vercverses prote. usly getting distorted way somewhere else am and if you think about thes supplies in botol legs il youknow youyou wear the seat o you manage a lot of the stuff ddo you feel comfortable this lot of peaks in december and alleviates from there or wete that trojection lookd like fe improvment ye by what i feel comfortable on is i i feel like we've made great. rogress on the covet related a disruptions and that a happened to cross the month of october and we're in a materially better position to day ah it is difficult to predict covet and so i'm not going to predict a where it goes but i can just tell you that as as uf today we're in a materially better position than we. are a in september and in the the first several weeks of october in terms of the chip shortage the chip shortage is happening on legacy notes primarily ah we buy leading edge notes and we're not having issues on leading edge notes but on legacy notes. e compete with a many different companies for supply and it's difficult to forecast a when those things will balance because you'd have to know how kind of how the economy's goingto be in tin twenty two and and the accuracy of every one else's demand projections and so ii don't. feel comfortable in a in making a prediction i i think it would be a you know wit be subject  too much inaccuracy ah but i do feel very comfortable with our operational tam i think we've got a world class one and a i'm sure there. they're doing everything they can do to a collapse cycle times and improve yields and do all the things that you can do in in addition to fundamental a capacity investment to to remedy the situation god it inen a muca a nasty qu. ser in gross margin  for december  ether yer sonc yo git in grosmargins totek flats maybe down a little bit or sobside september a no maybe just tuch about serthing historically i wuld have expected grosmargins to be oft in december  given how much revenue levert you end up with a so maybe one of the puts an takes on gros margin that are resulting in a more flattish ky versas hi. starkled fednoty well a as you know the typically you know obviously with the december being the holiday season we do get leverage as you say but it's also the period of the year where we launch al lot of new products and and e a as you know we launch essentially in every product category we launch new products. de mand is very strong but as you know when when we launch this new products we tend to have higher cross structures at the beginning of the cycle and so that's what balances this out  obviously from a year of a year standpoint it's actually a significant expansion right because when you look a. t a what we did a a year ago in the in tedecember quarter thirty nine point eight per cent this clearly indicates a significant expansion thanks amit can we have the next question please. we ye're next from katy heberty with morgan stanley thank you given the supply chat ans blurring the demand picture for iphon thirteen what data points can you share that help investors understand whether demand is tracking to a product cycle that is flat growing or or down from the very str. ong iphone twelve and maybe on that front luca you can also coment on where you exited ta quarter from a channel inventory standpoint for yphone relative to a normal product cycle then i but follow up ye imaybe i can take boths of those the channel inventory as you would expect in a constrained environment a the i. phone thainl limitory ended below the targeted range ah and and its currently below it and so thatthat's that in terms of the blurring of demand we look at katy we look at a number of different a data points we look at demand across our online store. demand in retail a the we look through to back orders on the carrier channels a the ones that do take back orders there ah we we  look at channel orders as well and so we have a number of different a data points that we use to. o conclude ah how strong demand is and we feel very very good about where demand is right now ah we're and we're working feverishly on the supply sideof a and tim is a follow up we've recently surveyed four thousand consumers in the us. in china and the feed back is most of them don't want to pay for aps or services direct with the developer they value the security privacy ease of transactions with the apstores so how do you think about balancing the regulators push for more choice with a customer base that's happy with the. existing experience and and just as a as a follow on to that um how are how are you and luca thinking about the potential impact of services revenue growth rate as some of the changes to the apstor go into effect e the main thing that were focused on on the apstore is to. ah keep our focus on privacy and security and so these are the two major tenants that have produced over the years a very trusted environment where consumers and developers a come together and consumers can trust the developers on the developers and. e aps or or what they say they are and the developers get a huge a of a audience to to sell their a software to and so that's that sort of number one on our list everything else's is a a distant second ah and so ww. ere doing is working to explain the decisions that we've made that are key to a keeping the privacy and security a there which which is toto not have side loading and not have alternate ways o on the yphone where it opens up the iph. on to a unreviewed apsen and also a gets by the privacy restrictions that we put on the apstore and so so we're very very focussed in discussing the privacy and security a elements of the apstore with the regulators and legislators. thanks katy giv me have the next question please we'll take our next question from david woyite with a u b s great thank you guys a and let's have two quick questions one big pikfor theoretical so you know you covered the supply chain in pretty extensive d. tail on the call but maybe just a bigger picture on how you're thinking about it philosophically given what you just sort of went through over the last twelve to eight months and what i mean by that is there sort of a recalebration needed or an adjustment around your supply tudyn philosophy either from a partner perspective or maybe a reasonal perspective and now howd you think about the anintstructure and andthistability. a sort of rebound and sort of handle sort of these destructions that seem to crop off from time to time and then ivl foll up ye i don't ii don't see a a fundamental error that that we've made if if that's what you're a picking at in terms of of creating the environment that we're in. a it was created for a number of reasons the the pandemic came along some a some people in the industry and some people outside the industry thought that the pandemic would reduce deman they pulled their orders down ah things reset and what really happened was. demand went up and went up even more than the than a a a straight trend would would predict and so the the industry is working through that now i'm making it a little overly simplicic there's some other things like yeels and things like that ah. that  that are happening as well but those things her are mainly manageable in the course of of time and so what what we're doing is working with our partners on making sure that they have supply that we need in making sure that our demand statements sir are accurate as we see them and and so fo. rth and at the same time were reducing our lea times and and cychletimes sso that when you get a chip off a fab at as quickly as possible it's in a product an shifting ah  you know and also helping the fab partners increase their yields and so dot. ose things ar ar things that we're doing a we also support the chip's act ah and the ininvestment there to i put more investment in the in the in the ground and a so we're we're spending some time a. dvocating for the chips act as well great then that's how fen i didn't i didn't mean to implicate that youguis had missed up just maybe came off that way and may be just says a quick follow up you know when you think about unow purchasing devices vautably you touched on that earlier but maybe can you just touch on you known the partnerships that you have with carriers and th support hat they have gi. venu over the last couple of years n ot tis been a key component of your success you no the tight relationship that you have globally am younow do you think sort of this business model as it's currently sort of unow unow put together globally as sort of a a permanent structure meaning ounow carriars ar going to be ano integral part of driving a demand for i. phones or uno is your senc that me gets alitl bit more transitory depending on the part of the cycle bhat wermin i think that five g has provided a a once in a decade kind of o upgrad potential and and its a multi yer kind of a thing it's not a. one year and dawn and i think the a weare motivated a there the carriers motivated there with mutual interest ah and the customer benefits hugely from getting a aa new fag phone that hasfa g and a number of other. features a in it too a and and so i think that i think everybody's a lined on purpose the the model that you paint is is i wouldn't call it a global model because thereare different a variations around the world depending upon the the country. but but in general i think that the a marriage if you will or partnership between apple and the carrier channels never been stronger ah and that itit's on very solid a footing thank you conm. o the next persion i clan thank very much ass will take our next question from chrish sencar with cowan and company ye i thank fitting my question i had two of them two and tim i will give you a reprieve from the supply chain questions i had two ont services the first one is on yo. new a p t the half tracking transfelrency feature and all the headlines it hav gone ot recently i'm i'm verry curious tho feed back you have seen or received from your advertisers and users and how it ha allso impacted surch as your own ad business fere us to know the feet back and an had a followu the f. ebec from customers is overwhelmingly positive a customers appreciate having the a option of whether they want to be tracked or not and so the the there's an outpouring of of a customer's satisfaction there on the customers side. tthe e reason that we did this is that as you know if you'e if you followed us for a while weve we believe strongly that privacy is a basic human right and orand we'e believed that for decades not just in the just in the last year or so and we've we've historically rolled out more. more features overtime a for to to place the decision of whether to share data and what data to share in the hands of the user where we believe that it belongs ah we don't think that's apples roll to decide and we don't think that's another company's rulle to decide but rather that the in. dividual who owns the the date itself and so that's our motivation there there's no other motivation got it got it timd and that's a very fair carexanation thank you for that and then as a quick follow up i'm just cind a curious youknown the mobl geeling in you apstor youknow there av been some recent action by fo. certaingolments to limit gaintime cand acus how that affects your abstord business and those geographies and is that a way you can qualify that or is that to imateio this point thank you you mean limiting the time on games is that what you're getting at ya exactly like ye i know thes becides a livic gainsi. on't think like that it's a very difficult to measure a theyet what the policy of youre talking about for those people that don't know is there's a a policy a to restrict a kids below a certain age a to i think it's one. hour on friday saturday sunday a each and a it's very difficult to to see the impact of it on the ap store at this point think it yep thanks can we have the next question please. thank you will take our next question from samic charigy with j p morgan i tan o taking my question ah i ges tam i want to do a forst to start off on your a comment about strong demand across producks and just rative to ifon thirteen if you can give us a bit more insight about what you. seeing in terms of intent in terms of either upgrades from the installed ways or even switchers rate of two if you can compare it toife on twelve because some of the a feet back weare getting is for example like strong switching activity in china so just wondering if you can get a bit more granular there in terms of the a what's driving the demand and who's it coming from and. he av a phototesso early to talk about ithum thirteen because it's only been on the market for for less than thirty days now ah what i can tell you is going into the cycle  if you look at our results from last quarter we grew on upgraders and switchers in the double diget. and so both were very meaningful for the for the iphon results last quarter and so there's a there's significant momentum in iphon and and i would clearly characterize the demand tthat we're seeing currently as robost as you can tell. from the some of the clots that were a quoting on the online store o cam and am as i follow up i i guess back to the supply chain but i wante to just ask more relative to cost implications there artn the a what we're hearing is not only tedious b. t also competent caus going up so a as we looked throuh a a then think about this upcoming cycle how are you looking to manage comperent coslated headwinds and is that something you're seeing u through coming through the supply chan ani we we put our current thoughts in the grosmargin guidance that we gave you the a forty. one five to forty two five ah i would tell you that we are seeing a significant increase in freight costs and and i i would assume that that is pretty consistent across a different companies and so we we've clearly seein some inflation there. thank you ye thanks ten we have the next question please think you will take our next question from jim suva with city group thank you and i'll ask both my questions at the same time probably the first ones for tim on the services revenue much better than. expected you know can you give us some details about what drove that was it apple stores more open so more apple care or mor apple one or arcade or tevee or fitness an that probably for lukon supply chain when you mention unow supply train headwind's going to get worse am and you mention six billion this quarter there'. two ways to think about your terminology of worse is it the delta from two billion that you identified three months ago that went to six billion so therefore the delta o f four billion gets worse or you just saying ah and therefore it's above ten billion for december quarter or you just saying it just gets higher than the six billion that that you just identified. i'm bearly in a call thank you so much to you in your team jim i'm going to take the second question that you ask and luca could take the first one on services as just in the reverse of the way you carined it a on the on the supplies constraints we were saying is that a the nuthe amount of the dhe nomi. l amount of supply constraints for ku wan we estimate to be larger than six billion and so indian itit's important to know that were we're getting a lot more supply in ku wan than we had in ku four obviously because our sequip. he quencial growth is significant and we have very solid growth yerofe re year and so the the amount of suppliis growing dramatically it's just that the demand is so robust that ah we we invision having supply constraints for the quarter. an captin o an anda and jim on services the twenty six six per cent a growth rate that we had was better than what we were expecting at the the beginning of the quarter and it was really across the board is difficult to single out a specific area because we sat all time records on cloud. wit we said ounow alltime records across the board  apulcere music vedio advertising payment services the apstor was a september quarter regusr was thrung across the board yu know when we look at the services business we always think about some fundamental factors that allow us to to hae. good visibility over the sustainability of the basiness right the fact that the install base continues to grow ah that's that's obviously a positive the fact that the number of people that are actually paying on the on the platform continues to grow double digits and s. o that obviously increases our opportunity a the number of subscriptions that we have a on the platform we mentioned during the call seven hundred and forty five million paid subs right now it's a an increase of one hundred and sixty million thers was just e twelve months ago. llright and obviously the fact that we continue to launch new services and new offerings within the services that we already have new features ar that you kno obviously gives us a lot of momentum a going forward we're very fortunate we have a very. now it's a very large business sixty eight billion dollars in the last twelve months and very diversified we a you now wwe sell a lot of different services and  our customers  seem to to really enjoy the experience that they have on the platform thank you so much for the details. thanks cen we have the next question please thank youw'll take our next question from criscaso with raymond james yes thank you am for my first question a it's a question about your ability to a recapture a sals that you weren't able to fill and cho for. u one in in cu too am an and you have some some experience in that from last year when hthe e iphone a not allthe models once at the same time anand some were late and you did recapture some of that as you went past the holidays do you think that we should expect similar behavior this year. and then with that also is wwel all prodi categories abehave similarly meaning that are there same some prodic categories where if yeu miss the holidayas you e just miss the sale i think there are a some products that people buy as gifs that if it's not there that it's perishable. ah but i think that a we have a lot of products as well that people will wait for and woud would expect those to to a be captured in in a different time period so it's  it's a combination o fo. r this certain quarter of the holiday quarter i i believe ka am as a follow up could you speak to iphone mix and am a one of th things we noted is that the delivery time for all yphones are a bit long because of the c. nd strengths they're a bit longer on on the pro an the max a is that a function of of supply or or demand or perhaps both um and again i ii would imagine you have a little better handle on that this year given that allthephones whut bolon uch at the same time yet it's it's really too early to make com. ents on mix at this point because it has been we have been in a constrained environment so the the mix becomes more obvious once supplying the man ar ore balanced don't the think it thanks can we have the next question please. thank you will take our next question from harsh comorrow with piper sander ya he a gis first of all great job managing to these supply constrains it's a it's obviously affecting everybody so congratulation e mend ten mont for you a strategic question when apple thinks about strategic erias that that as a c. mpany o on i own for example sofferis high priority but you're also one of the largest semy conductor companies if if the company wul stand alone so curious about the kind of inport that a thinking that goes into owning some piece of technology for example when we survey people thay say batteries and screens are very important so wh. teas an apple for example what part  apple from looking at areas like that we we look at ones where we believe we can make a substantial difference and a have a level of differentiation and so you know a we've put a lot of energy in the sylicon space because we. have felt that we could a design and develop products that we could not if we were in the just of buying what's available in the commercial market and as you can see more recently we made that call ah on the mack as well and have shifted to our to our own ships. ere and so it really depends on whether we see a way to do something that's differentiated or not and a and i wouldn't want to rule i wouldn't want to rule anything out it's more of whether whether or not we see our way clear to to doing so. thing that is a materially batter we feel like we've done it at aywo unerswe feel like we've done that in the trip area a thank thank you for that tim and then i've gout one for lucom i want to go back to a question an i mat ask earlier in the call about to brush margin so when i look at the. tumber quarter our services obviousaly grew much faster than the product business margin was down and same thing for december but i think you're youre your effectivally saying that there's a lot of new product launches would that not go into opex for example marketing excetera as supposed to cogs or is there something that that very need t te cl. rified here that is certainly obviously that we have launch experiences between marketing and advertising of course when we launch new products but the reality what happens we always make our products better and which means adding new techknowledge and new features to the product so typically when. you move from one generation of products to the next one the cost structures tend to be higher particuly at the beginning of the cycle and so when you make that transition there is always some level of margin compression from a the transition to a new product a the other the other aspe. that you need to think about is the fact that the december quarter is the holiday season and so the percentage of products business that we have in the holiday quarter is higher than whan we have in the september quarter for example and and therefore as you know because. the services margins are higher than the products margin there's also a mix between the products and services business that plays a into the the gross margins for the company right and that's what you see as you move sequentially from september to december very well thank you so much. thank you can we had the next question please think you will ear next from wamsy mohan with pink of america ah yes thank you a i had a question about a broadly about prizing off new products a this year apple launch the iphon. hirteen at a slightly lower prize then than where the twelve was launched last year in china i can you maybe help us tink through what wat ar some of the things that you look at in deciding that and and is that an action that you could amtake more broadly in other regions and i will follow up. we look at a variety of things a including a our cost including a competition and including a local conditions and exchange rates and you know a number of different things and so there's not a there's no a. formula for determining it it's a it's done by a level of judgment looking at a number of different a points af data points and we do that region by region but we shouldn't as anlessors think of that as something struck. rill that you intend to use to flex am you know demand curves something or more globily it's something we've always done and so it's not something that is new to this year and thi cycle oka i'm out of the. ollow up am iyou've introduced a lot of new services of the past few years and these have become a much more important part of the of the apple story can you maybe share you know either some matrics on some of the new services like t v bloss in terms of paid sobs am and and ho. are you measuring the success of these investments well we look at a number of things internally a that we don't share externally and so you can bet that we're looking at a subs and arpos and a conversions and charn and all othe normal things you would look at with a subscription. usiness ah but we're not going to get into sharing those on an individual service basis that what we're trying to do is give you visibility to the aggregate ah numberos subscriptions that we ae had which a luga covered earlier with the seven forty five across both am. apple branded and third party and so we're giving you an aggregated view of it instead of the at the individual service level but you can bet tat were managing it at the individual service level it think them ye thank you wamsy a replay of to day's call. ll be available for two weeks on apple pod casts as a webcast on apple dotcom slash invester and via telephone the numbers for the telephone replay are eight eight eight two zero three one one one two or seven one nine four five seven zero eight two zero please enter confirmation code. even one four one four one five these replays will be available by approximately five p m pacific time to day members of the press with additional questions can contact josh rosenstock at four zero eight eight six two one one four two financial analists can contact me with additional questions at six six nine. wo two seven two four zero two thank you again for joining us this concludes to day's conference we appreciate your participation. 